hi my name is Justin Wangler I'm the
executive chef at kendall jackson winery
and today we're preparing one of my
favorite dishes grilled calamari you
often see it fried and lots of
restaurants but it's kind of under
utilized as a grilled product gets an
amazing carmelization and just really
wonderful flavor so today we're pairing
the dish with Kendall Jackson vintners
reserve Pinot Noir grape fruit flavor in
this one cherries cranberry a little bit
of earthiness the salad that we're
making is going to kind of pull in those
cherry flavors and the earthy notes
found in the Pinot so we're going to
make a vinaigrette with a ingredient
called you may plum paste it's from
pickled plums from Japan along with some
pinot noir virtue and pomegranate
molasses and all those are great red
fruit characteristics that will really
tie in with the Pinot Noir so to get
started we're going to start with some
clean calamari and we're going to
marinate it in a little bit of olive oil
some fresh thyme a little bit of salt
and I'm going to smash some garlic
cloves upset give it a good whack there
quick little shop man in here and we're
also going to add a spice called sumac
consume acts one of my favorite spices
it's from the Mediterranean it works
really well with Pinot Noir and sera
it's got a sour kind of red berry
cranberry flavor to it I'm just going to
season that and this you could do even
the night ahead of time it's just going
to get more flavor into it so we'll just
give this a little talk in the meantime
we're going to set those off to the side
and now we're going to melon ball some
potatoes and pretty simple to do you
just want to take the melon baller
we got some water over here we're just
going to add that to boiling salted
water those are going to take about
eight minutes to cook next we want to
assemble the vinaigrette and we're going
to start by using a little bit of that
you may plum base here it's pretty
strong it's salty it's sweet and sour
it's gotta with the Japanese call it
mommy it's the fifth flavor sense so
there's a lot going on there we're going
to add a little bit of soy sauce next
rice wine vinegar Pinot Noir vers you
then we're going to add a little bit of
mirin which is a Japanese sweet cooking
wine a little sesame paste which is
often used in tahini pomegranate
molasses give it a little pinch of salt
there and we're just going to whisk in
the sesame oil really really fragrant a
lot of big flavors going on here we're
just going to add a little bit of olive
oil it's pretty much our vinaigrette and
we will go into grilling the calm our
necks so calamari could have marinated
overnight we got a nice hot smoking
grill pan we're just gonna add a
calamari and calamari is one of those
things that you want to either cook it
really fast a really slow so we're just
going to put these in here and they're
going to take just a couple minutes to
cook we're gonna do the tentacles as
well there and I begin to brown on one
side and then we'll flip it in the
meantime we're going to add some
cherries and get a little caramelization
on them they just have a little bit of
olive oil on them we're just going to
brown the potatoes in a little butter
it's a little bit of salt and the sumac
you can really smell it in the air kind
of smells toasty and nutty and a little
bit of a cranberry aroma
cherries are looking good and then we're
just going to give the calamari a rough
chop we can actually throw the tentacles
right in the bowl just kind of bite-size
pieces you can pop the cherries off and
into the bowl as well well the cow line
so now the potatoes have become golden
brown we're just going to add those to
the bowl with the rest of the
ingredients this point we just need to
give the salad at all check it for
seasoning and then we can plate it up
and taste it with the Pinot Noir you can
see the lettuce is warmed up and welted
a little bit so just make a little pile
out in the middle there some calamari in
the front just kind of nice rustic dish
really nice smoky sweet salty so many
flavors going on and this nice crisp
acidity of the pinot just kind of pulls
it all together